---
layout: post
title: 1/27/2023 News & Thoughts
---

["Amazon, Google, Meta, Microsoft lay off thousands — but tech jobs are still hot in 2023, Indeed finds" by CNBC](https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/technologyinvesting/amazon-google-meta-microsoft-lay-off-thousands-%E2%80%94-but-tech-jobs-are-still-hot-in-2023-indeed-finds/ar-AA16Ltmj)

Main points from the article:
  1. Tech giants (Microsoft, Amazon, Google, and Meta) have done mass layoffs in recent weeks.
  2. With these mass layoffs from the tech giants, tech jobs are in high demand across the US, according to Indeed research.
  3. Other sectors assume/consume most of the laid-off tech workers in their industry to firm up their technology areas and needs.


My View:

We are in the era of evolution, this is my opinion, where the current and near future won’t be the same as last decade ago or even a century ago. Just  look back at the last couple of years (2~3 years back), we’ve encountered an unprecedented pandemic and the whole world was on lockdown for two good years and then we had the rise of technology with a whole new paradigm shift of working environment from on-site to remote. And we can describe those last couple of years as a hot pursuit race of evolution of our lives.

What I am trying to explain here is that the world is not the same place that we used to know based on our past experiences. At least economically and work-wise, these two areas have evolved so rapidly that our known metrics and ideas can’t define the current and future state of it. And this article that I am sharing is a great example of explaining this view. The giant tech companies had a huge profit and gain tremendous capital during the pandemic and that would give them the resources to beef up their stands to continue their success for a good amount of time in the future. As a result, those tech giants scrapping headcount so that they can keep innovating (In their terms, to me it's more of locking people to their ecosystem so that others can’t compete with them) and attracting interest and capital to their field. Well, that era has lasted for a short amount of time with the shift in economic condition, those tech giants forfeited their strategy and become more defensive in their stance which is to cut loose and stay lean.

With that being said, is this the only side effect that we are facing with this event? As you can see from the title of the article, those laid-off workers are in high demand, and they are getting back to work quickly but not exactly in their tech sector but all over the fields. The above event/rapid evolution of tech leads to another paradigm shift within the whole field that technology is very essential to their part of the business everywhere. This would lead non-tech companies to have their technology area and they need to have their team of tech workers to survive as well. So, the world (to be exact, the way of doing business) is evolving with technology, without it, any company can survive in the current era. As a tech worker for myself, this is relieved news that the pie of the tech field got bigger but also worried that how long would this last as another wave of evolution is on the verge (ML/AL, this is another interesting topic that I would like to dissect deeply at another time).



