---
layout: post
title: Is It Still Worth Learning How to Code?
---


["Cloud Support: Is It Still Worth Learning How to Code?" by WIRED](https://apple.news/Ass6MqD7OQn2SHTSG1rPLyQ)


## Coding, Is it Still Worth It?

This article or Q&A from WIRED is trying to answer the question that the reader asked, “Is it still worth learning to code”. 
And then the writer answered with his deep insight with the regard to this matter. 

The writer explains and says that even the developer of AI doesn’t understand fully how the system introspects and analysis information. 
(the writer recalls the shock of hearing David Silver, a principal research scientist at DeepMind, insist in 2016 that he could not explain how AlphaGo—a program he designed—managed to develop its winning strategy) 
Along with this, the writer also mentioned that Machines are creating more sophisticated code that human can’t understand and it's worth nothing to know such code in the present day if this would become obsolete in near future.

However, the writer adds this interesting point to the end and mentioned that understanding the code or being able to read the code (being literate in tech) would remain us, the human, as an author of the machine revolution instead of just interpreters. 
The writer shared some historical events such as Protestant Reformation as well as the French and American Revolutions where people asked questions and look in deep after they can read and write.

With this article, I was thinking that the current trend or booming in AI is just the spark of a new machine revolution. 
Until most people can be able to understand the words, the next level of revolution won’t happen. 
And coding/machine words is the next foreign language and I or the younger generation must pursue it since the world would be on evolve around these machines in near future.


