---
layout: post
title: 1/30/2023 News & Thoughts
---

["Biden Secures Another Win in China Chip War. These Stocks Are Impacted" by Barron's](https://www.barrons.com/articles/baidu-china-chatgpt-google-microsoft-ai-51675075605)

Main points from the article:

1.	The US had a deal with the Netherlands and Japan to restrict the export of Chip making equipment to Chia.
2.	Japan and the Netherlands are home to some of the most influential companies building equipment for the semiconductor industry.
3.	This would add some gloom to the picture for semiconductor companies hoping to rebound from what was a tough 2022.


My View:

The US struck another blow to China where they ban/restricted exporting of advanced chip-making equipment to China. 
This would hurt China where many chip-making companies are moving out of China due to their strict government control and now this would give more reason to those companies to expedite their exile. 
However, this might hurt the overall performance of chip-making companies since they would lose part of their sales to one of the biggest countries in the world. 
And it shows on the stock market where related stocks went down a couple of percentages. However, this would eventually rebound since the demand for the chip would arise in 2023 and beyond. 
Therefore, only China would be the loser of this deal, adding more headwinds to their already troubled situation in China. 
If things kept going south for China, then China would be the next Soviet Union where they would only exist in the history book.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


["Column: How Big Tech is using mass layoffs to bring workers to heel" by LosAnglesTimes](https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/other/column-how-big-tech-is-using-mass-layoffs-to-bring-workers-to-heel/ar-AA16Ti96)

Main points from the article:

1.	With a few days into 2023, another round of mass layoffs from Tech giants (Amazon, Microsoft, Google, and IBM totaling 44,000)
2.	These massive layoffs would deem as “tightening their belt” but it’s more of taking control of powers from the employees to their feet.
3.	This time those impacted workers are forming organizations to help out each other and ultimately challenging the big tech companies' way of overpowering tech workers.

My View:

I knew there is more than a just cost saving and getting lean on their expenses whenever the big tech companies do the massive layoff. 
Even though I can conclusively say it is, reading this column enlighten me on how companies especially tech companies play with layoffs. 
I won’t say much here but please go ahead and read the column and see how the layoffs play out for tech companies. 
I hope you would see that these massive layoffs encourage companies and then discourage the workers (laid-off or not) and provides favor to companies afterward. 
However, there is a wave of changes that arise so hopefully, this new wave of movement would give protection that we deserve in this capitalist world where everything evolves around numbers but not people.

