---
layout: post
title: 1/31/2023 News & Thoughts
---

["How ChatGPT Will Destabilize White-Collar Work" by The Atlantic](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2023/01/chatgpt-ai-economy-automation-jobs/672767/)


Main points from the article:

  1.	In the last couple of years, many AI-powered tools get out and provides much insight and show the possibility of the future state of productivity.
  2.	It would eventually increase productivity and reduce the labor force for a certain field but not sure to what extent this would affect.
  3.	However, this evolution/change is not only going to affect negatively but it would create more opportunities for many people.

My View:

The last couple of months were hectic for the folk in tech due to the rise of ChatGPT.  
This is an AI-powered tool in which users can ask any questions and it would provide a most interesting and valid outcome. 
If you haven’t tried this tool yet, then please go ahead and play with it. 
You will find out how amazing this tool is and might be worried that this would affect your job later. 
However, this article does give more insight where how new invention takes a time to impact our lives and 
then mention that some of the inventions such as the internet makes people's lives better but do not replace or take away anything negatively. 
I am not sure whether these AI tools would be the tool that helps out or change our whole life in some way, 
but it is definitely a welcoming change that would lead our world to a better and more efficient place.

*Please read the article since the author well stated the topic and my personal view is just the tip of the iceberg that the article stated.




