---
layout: post
title: Tesla
---

(https://www.wsj.com/articles/tesla-stock-rallies-on-optimistic-outlook-from-elon-musk-11674751082)

Main points from the article:

  1. Tesla stock went up 8% after the earning call on Thursday (1/25/2023), the stock is up 27% year to date.
  2. Elon/Tesla planned on 1.8 million EVs which is over 37% from 2022 but that is below their target of 50% per year.
  3. Analysts forecast only a 720,000 increase in deliveries and expect 2023 auto gross profits to fall year over year.
     And also they forecast a 19.3% margin, below Tesla’s target of 20%.

     
My personal view:

  The competition is strong, but Tesla is still the king of the EV market now. I wouldn't think any automakers would take their spot anytime soon.
  However, their performance and target are a bit of a long shot with the current economy and competition. Even though they are top of the EV market, other
  automakers are catching up with EVs, giving more selection to the customer. And Tesla is cutting their price which would hurt its profit
  margin. But Elon and Tesla are confident that they would perform well in 2023 and the market is side with their confidence which shows in their stock
  price today.
 
  In my opinion, Tesla is in a state where they need to make very critical choices about their company's future. I am leaning toward that
  Elon's time at Tesla is ending soon and it needs to find its next captain who can lead the company to a more efficient company. I tend to see Tesla
  as the next Apple and Apple evolves after Tim Cook took control of the company after Steve Jobs and hate it or not, he made Apple one of the most
  profitable companies in the world. The way that Tim Cook changed Apple is what Tesla needs to do for the future of the company. 
  And I strongly doubt that Elon can do that with Tesla and its current state. With stuff full on his plate, I doubt that he could solely focus on Tesla’s own interests. 
  We will see how this would unfold as 2023 goes on but at the moment his confidence is not showing up as true confidence but more of a bluff.
